---
title: V0.12 Patchnotes
author: Alec
---

The original goal of this patch was to revamp the economy and release the Sentinels of Wanderstar mode. However, with the Play/Pass rules change, updating the tutorial became a higher priority than the economy. We also want to give Sentinels more time in the oven, and probably give it a hard mode before we release it.

## Economy

The first/second/third win daily quests have been removed and replaced with new quests that give credit for playing with Heroes of a particular affinity. Much larger economy changes will be coming in the next major patch.

- Added a new Economy window accessible by clicking on the quest tracker in the top left where you can claim the rewards from completed quests.

## Tick Removal

“Affinity Ticks” have been removed. Going forward, cards are either exclusive to their affinity or not.

- From now on, if an affinity-exclusive card of another affinity ends up in your hand, it will cost 1 more like all other off-affinity cards.

- These Core Set cards have been made Exclusive:
    - Cataclysm
    - Explosive Incantation
    - Scavenger Crab
    - Titan of the Old Ways
- All player-created cards that had more than one tick have simply had their ticks removed.

## Hero and Rule Changes

- **Ashgerdy:** EXP granted by passive is now 5 instead of 6.

    _Ash's passive could swing the game too hard, bringing her to level 3 before even having enough mana to use Give the Order. This change will ease that swing, while keeping the reward big enough to justify going for it._

- **Pearlmaw:** Off-Affinity cards in Pearlmaw’s deck cost 2 more mana, instead of 1.

    _One issue we heard a lot while deciding whether to remove Affinity Ticks was that Pearlmaw can use other affinities' high mana cards even more efficiently than their own heroes sometimes. This change is designed to correct that issue._

- Removed auto-passing at 0 mana.

    _Some players have requested a way to turn off auto-passing because they like to bluff. Mainly though, while redesigning the tutorial we realized autopassing made the turn structure much more difficult to learn._

- Readying a unit that just came into play will now allow it to attack, block or use an Active.

    _This is a long-requested change, and with the Play/pass system change, this opens up more ways for players to design their cards._
- Added **Leap** as an official keyword. Rather than granting Flying when the unit doesn't attack, it simply allows the unit to block Fliers.🐸
- **Fast** now allows you to play another card immediately. It can now be given to units, but won't be given by random keyword effects.

## UI and Visuals

- Turn timer changes
    - Playing quickly during the Play Cards phase will now "bank" more time, playing slowly will use up your banked time.
    - Failing to play anything or press the Done button during a phase will put your timer in "burndown" mode where you'll have a very short turn timer until you play something.
- The text on the Done button now changes depending on the phase and whether passing will end the Play cards phase.
- Revamped the Hero select screen, Multiqueue UI, and many other UI elements.
- The card frame has updated to match the changes we released in the Creator a few weeks ago.
- Astral Gauntlet decks can now be built outside of multiplayer hours.
- Changed how some cards are zoomed outside of the game, particularly in the deck editor.
- Fixed the issue where related cards and reminder texts didn’t show up for cards in out of game voting.
- Adjusted text in the title of Choose windows so they can fit two lines comfortably.

## Other Changes

- The tutorial has been updated for the new turn structure rules.
- Incursion has changed to only use decks imported from the clipboard.
- The audio system has changed a bit internally so you may need to adjust your sound effects or music volume settings.

## Discord Multiplayer Bot

- We're testing out a Discord bot that runs in the Multiplayer channel.
    - You can get notified when Multiplayer hours start by reacting to Nick's pinned message in that channel.
    - The bot will announce when players are in queue, and the results of matches.

### Card Creator

- Players can now be Chosen.
- The ObjectType property is now read-only.

### Bug Fixes

- The deck editor wasn't showing off-affinity mana costs correctly in the deck list.
- Put in another fix for blueprint purchases failing.

### Known Issues

- Leap doesn't have an icon
