---
title: v1.1.1 Patchnotes, Card Submission Changes, and Design Competition
author: Alec
authorURL: mailto:alec@collective.gg
---

## Card Formatting and Submission Changes

In an effort in encourage simpler card designs, we're making some changes to how cards are created and scored each week.

* Flavor text no longer appears on cards themselves. It has been moved to side where reminder text and tokens are displayed.
* Commons and Uncommons created in the card creator now have larger text, giving less space for rules text. The text size on uncommons is larger than for commons.
* The number of uncommons and rares that get added to the game each week is now limited. Each week, no more than 4 uncommmons and one rare will be added to the game.
* Cards created before this announcement will be unaffected by these changes.

## Design Competition

The DC this time is a Realm-related one! After a voting process done by EmptyFolder, last tournament winner, this is the new realm that won the rights to get their own DC!

Hope's Hollow, by Lord Davenport.

Lore:
In a place a lot like medieval Europe, people are just trying to survive. 
Harvests are unpredictable and taxes are harsh. 
Farming is back breaking labor at the best of times, with often meager rewards. 
Luckily the kind folk of a local double monastery provide aid to the needy. 
Thus the folk of Hope's Hollow survive another week in the place they ought to be. 

Affinity Relations:
The local people and church are neutral/strength aligned. General focus on community.
The Lord and his justice system are mind/spirit aligned. Focus on economy and removal. 

Realm Mechanic: Neutral/Any: Creating 0 cost 1/1 Hungry Beggar tokens in hand. 
Beggar token. https://files.collective.gg/p/cards/4a3c2210-b82f-11ea-8688-b3fb282dcdc9-s.png
These tokens are meant to synergize with feed effects. 

Example Cards: 
https://files.collective.gg/p/cards/c4a4f290-b909-11ea-8688-b3fb282dcdc9-m.png
https://files.collective.gg/p/cards/fbcafec0-b884-11ea-8688-b3fb282dcdc9-m.png
https://files.collective.gg/p/cards/a78c9350-ba96-11ea-b5a7-af83f02b09ac-s.png

A reminder of the rules for DC's:

Design Competitions can have anywhere from 1 to 5 winners, and the number is picked ahead of time. This time, it's 3. Just like [Update]s, the top N (some number from 1-5) [DC] submissions with more votes than the 10th normal submission each week are accepted.

Design Competition entries should be submitted with the tag [DC].

[Updates] are not eligible for design competitions.

The submission deadline is midnight PST Wednesday.

After the deadline, on Friday at midday PST, the three cards with the most upvotes will be added to the game.

## Bug Fixes

* Players noticed Marie's passive sometimes didn't Banish actions in her graveyard. This was happening because of the "Rule of 13" which prevents triggered effects from happening more than 13 times in one turn. Going forward, hero passives are exempt from the Rule of 13.
* Fixed a bug where an Immortal unit that was killed and returned to play as part of the same effect would return itself to its controller's hand.
