---
title: v1.1.0 Patchnotes - Season 2
author: Alec
authorURL: mailto:alec@collective.gg
---

## New Season

New season means new Hero, new Season Pass, and refreshed seasonal achievements!

Dozens of new cosmetics have been added to the shop and are available to earn via the Premium Season Pass.

Complete the Premium Season Pass, and you'll earn the new Costume Party Kyung Mi skin! We'll be revealing all of the outfits for the skin closer to the end of the season.

## RIP Drafting (Almost)

Heroes no longer Draft when they level up (except Kyung Mi). While is was fun at times, and added some necessary variance to games, the mechanic was overall too cumbersome to keep in the game. Drafting often had no impact on games other than to slow them down, with drafted cards often being board-clogging chaff or overly niche. New players were stuck reading and evaluating four cards, multiple times per game, every single game. Overall we feel the game plays much better without it.

Draft has been renamed to Scout. Heroes Scout when they level up after getting their last reward. Each level after a Hero's last reward will now require 12 EXP.

In Sentinels, players still Recruit a card when they level up. This will be removed as part of the Sentinels revamp slated for Season 3.

## New Hero - Marie

Marie is a prodigy in healing alchemy and speaking with the dead. Through careful study and preparation, she becomes momentarily possessed by the recently departed, in order to gain their skills and aid.

Passive:

    +1 EXP if two or more units enter your graveyard each turn.
    Banish all actions that enter your graveyard.

Level 2: Eau D'Ange

    When you play or discard this, gain 3 HP and Choose a friendly unit to give 3 HP.
    When you level up, return this to your hand.

Level 3: Possession

    Hero Active: Pay 1 Mana. Banish the top unit of your graveyard. Play its Summon, Entomb, and Active abilities.

Level 4: House of Zombi

    6 Mana
    0/4
    Immortal
    Your Active, Summon, and Entomb abilities happen twice.

## Hero Changes

We've made a large number of changes to heroes, simplifying most of them by reducing the number of rewards. Our goal was to hone in on their mechanical identity, while reducing complexity when you first read them. There are also some balance changes mixed in here, and most heroes have had their EXP requirements adjusted.

* Ashgerdy
    * Passive now gives 4 EXP when triggered.
    * Removed level 5 reward.
    * Aurora Gate (level 4 reward) is now: 6 mana 0/5 with Immortal and "At the end of each turn, your opponent loses HP equal to the EXP you gained this turn."
* Buluc
    * Removed level 5 reward.
    * Kukul (level 4 reward) is now: 6 mana 4/4 with Immortal, Agile, Overrun, and "When this attacks, return two random units in your graveyard to play. They attack."
    * Enkindler of Strife's tokens now have "Entomb: Banish this."
* Dhat
    * Removed level 5 reward.
    * Great Landwyrm (level 4 reward) is now: 7 mana 7/7 with "If your units have 20 or more total HP, they get +5 ATK and Overrun."
* Heldim
    * Moved Cassiel's revive and stat boost effects to Heldim's passive.
    * Cassiel is now un-silenced whenever she's revived.
    * Cassiel now gets Overrun at level 3.
    * Cassiel now gets Regenerate at level 4 (was Overrun and Regenerate).
* Pearlmaw
    * Geistwing Raiders (level 3 reward) no longer has an Active, and is now a 3/3.
* Vriktik
    * Removed Lanian Shrike (level 4 reward) and previous level 5 reward.
    * Level 4 reward is now: "When you play an action, copy it and play it again. Repeat for each level you've gained beyond four."
* Kyung Mi
    * _No changes, but the other heroes losing ~~Draft~~ Scout is an indirect buff to her._

### Voting Changes

Going forward, players have the option to vote on a card at the end of each game (singleplayer and multiplayer). Choosing to vote at the end of a game awards 10 Gold. Both voting ticket and end-of-match voting have been changed, so you only vote on one card at a time.

Our goal with these changes is to remove the analysis paralysis of voting on multiple cards at a time, and get new players voting early and often.

Voting Tickets are now primarily a reward from the free Season Pass track, and no longer expire.

### Card Creator

* New Block: Force Play Trigger Keyword - allows you to immediately play a trigger keyword ability (Entomb, Summon, etc.) on a card.
* Random Card from Outside the Game now allows searching by Realm.

### Other changes

* Revamped the end of game screen.
* Entrance is now an officially supported keyword.
* Added an animation to indicate when a unit is Exhausted.
* The game board is slightly more zoomed in, to reduce the amount of screen space used up by board decorations.
* Many players complain about frequent disconnects, so we've changed the networking system we use in the background to Valve's open source [GameNetworkSockets](https://github.com/ValveSoftware/GameNetworkingSockets). Please let us know if you notice improvements or more frequent disconnects or crashes.
* Card database updates are now handled on the first loading screen.
* The login screen now has a Login with Steam button instead of a Create Account button, so you can use that to log back in if you're disconnected and don't auto-reconnect.
* New accounts may see a much shorter version of the existing story mode as the tutorial. We're still experimenting with what works best here.

### Bug Fixes

* Hero Skins weren't showing the artist for the skin on reward cards.
* Dark Cold and other Exhaust effects now cancel Agile and Ambush.
* Fixed a bug where Feed effects didn't work with being force played.

### Known Issues

* Tokens are missing when voting on cards.
