---
title: v1.0.0 Patchnotes
author: Alec
authorURL: mailto:alec@collective.gg
---

_Collective officially launches Friday on Steam, but we're putting up the 1.0 patch and starting Season 1 a few days early just to make sure everything's in good working order, and to invite the players who signed up through our social distancing promotion. After the 26th, a notice will start showing when you start the game letting people know we've moved to Steam._

## New Hero: Kyung Mi

You can learn all about her here [in this separate blog post.](/library/blog/2020/03/23/kyung-mi) Kyung Mi is immediately unlocked if you purchase the Premium Season Pass.

## Season 1

The Season Pass has been refreshed and the Premium track has been added. Check it out in game to see all the rewards you can earn!

## New Cosmetics

Items with a * are included in the Premium Season Pass track.

* Hero Skin - Plush Buluc*
    * Only available on the Premium Season Pass for the time being.
* Card Backs
    * Steam Age*
    * Prototype
* Game Boards
    * Feor*
    * Webewal*
    * Feor Under Attack - Included in free track of Season Pass.
* Card Frame - Steam Age
    * Card Frames are unlocked per-card using Card Frame Tickets. Tickets are used in the Cosmetics window.
* Dozens of new emotes - most of which are included in the Premium Season Pass track.
* Our first three Realm emotes: Aediv, Enterra, and Yamato. (Will appear in game tomorrow)

### Hero Balance

Kukul, Feathered God (Buluc's level 4 reward) is now a 4/4 with Overrun and "Active: Deal 3 damage and this attacks." His tribal type has been removed.

### Card Creator
* Owners of the current Premium Season Pass can now upload art directly to the Card Creator.
* New animation - (Self) Punch

### Other Changes
* Frenzy is now an official keyword.
* The bug report button has been removed from the game board, and moved to the system menu. Please continue to use it when you run into issues.
* The Blueprint card frame art has been updated.
* Added a Help & Support section to the system menu.
* Made the default click noise quieter.

### Bug Fixes
* Fixed a reconnection bug.
* Fixed a bug where deck lists with unofficial cards couldn't be loaded.
